public:: true

- #Public page
	 - automatically published
- Increasingly important features of modern blockchain implementations areprogrammability through smart contracts, and issuance of arbitrarytokens. Assigning a transaction to represent another thing like aneconomic unit, energy unit, or real world object, and operating on thoseabstractions within the chain logic. Chief among these use cases arestablecoins such as Tether, which are pegged to national currencies anddescribed in the next section. Bitcoin has always supported very limitedcontracts called scripts, and stablecoin issuance has existed in Bitcoinsince [Omni Layer](https://www.omnilayer.org/). Omni was the firstissuer of Tether, but more recently these important features have passedto other layer one chains. This year is likely to see the [resurgence ofthiscapability](https://www.hiro.so/blog/bitcoin-ecosystem-a-guide-to-programming-languages-for-bitcoin-smart-contracts)on Bitcoin, which of course benefits from a better security model. Onceagain, there is a stong assertion by some that [this isn’t evenpossible](https://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/bitcoin-dev/2022-April/020227.html).The debate is complex and unresolved.
- In order to properly understand the use of Bitcoin based technologies inmetaverse applications it is necessary to examine what these newer‘layer 3’ ideas might bring.
- ## LNP/BP and RGB
	- [LNP/BP](https://giacomozucco.com/layers-before-bitcoin) is a non profitstandards organisation in Switzerland which contributes to open sourcedevelopment of Bitcoin layer 3 solutions into the Lightning protocol,and Bitcoin protocol (LNP/BP). One of the core product developmentswithin their work is the [‘RGB’ protocol](https://www.rgb.tech/), whichis somewhat of a meaningless name, evolved from “coloured coins” whichwere an early tokenised asset system on the Bitcoin network. RGBrepresents red, green, and blue. The proposal is built upon research by[Todd](https://petertodd.org/2016/commitments-and-single-use-seals) and[Zucco](https://giacomozucco.com/#intro). RGB is regarded as arcaneBitcoin technology, even within the already rarefied Bitcoin developercommunities. Zucco provides the [followingexplanation](https://bitcoinmagazine.com/culture/video-interview-giacomo-zucco-rgb-tokens-built-bitcoin):
	- it“When I want to send you a bitcoin, I will sign the transaction, Iwill give the transaction only to you, you will be the only oneverifying, and then we’ll take a commitment to this transaction and thatI will give only the commitment to miners. Miners will basically build ablockchain of commitments, but without the actual validation part. Thatwill be only left to you. And when you want to send the assets tosomebody else, you will pass your signature, plus my signature, plus theprevious signature, and so on.”
	- This is non-intuitive explanation of Todds ‘single-use-seals’, appliedto Bitcoin, with the purpose of underpinning arbitrary asset transfersecured by the Bitcoin network. In this model the transacting partiesare the exclusive holders of the information about what the object theyare transferring actually represents. This primitive can (and has) beenexpanded by the LNP/BP group into a concept called ‘client sidevalidation’. It’s appropriate to explain this concept several times fromdifferent perspectives, because this is potentially a profoundly usefultechnology for metaverse applications.
		- A promise is made to spend a multi output transaction in the future. This establishes the RGB relationships between the parties.
		- One of the pubkeys to be spent to is known by both parties.
		- The second output is unknown and is a combination of the hash of the state, and schema, from the operation which has been performed.
		- When the UTXO is spent the second spends pubkey can be processed against the shared data blob to validate the shared state in a two party consensus (sort this out, it’s nonsense).
		- This is now tethered to the main chain. Some tokens from the issuance have gone to the recipiant, and the remainder have gone back to the issuer. More tokens can be issued in the same way from this pool.
		- A token schema in the blob will show the agreed issuance and the history back to the genesis for the token holder.
		- The data blob contains the schema which is the key to RGB functions and the bulk of the work and innovation.
		- Each issuance must be verified on chain by the receiving party.
	- This leverages the single-use-seal concept to add in smart contracts,and more advanced concepts to Bitcoin. Crucially, this is notconceptually the same as the highly expressive ‘layer one’ chains whichoffer this functionality within their chain logic. In those systemsthere is a globally available shared consensus of ‘state’. In the LNP/BPtechnologies the state data is owned, controlled, and stored by thetransacting parties. Bitcoin provides the crytographic external proof ofa state change in the event of a proof being required. This is anelegant solution in that it takes up virtually no space on theblockchain, is private by design, and is extensible to layer 2 protocolslike Lightning.
	- This expanding ecosystem of client side verified proposals is asfollows:
		-
	 - RGB smart contracts
		-
	 - RGB assets are fungible tokens on Bitcoin L1 and L2, and non fungible Bitcoin L1 (and somewhat on L2).
		-
	 - Bifrost is an [extension](https://github.com/LNP-BP/presentations/blob/master/Presentation slides/Bifrost.pdf) to the Lightning protocol, with it’s own Rust based node implementation, and backwards compatibility with other nodes in the network. This means it can transparently participate in normal Lightning routing behaviour with other peers. Crucially however it can also negotiate passing the additional data for token transfer between two or more contiguous Bifrost enabled parties. This can be considered an additional network liquidity problem on top of Lightning, and is the essence of the “Layer 3” moniker associated with LNP/BP. It will require a great number of such nodes to successfully launch token transfer on Lightning. As a byproduct of it’s more ‘protocol’ minded design decisions Bifrost can also act as a generic peer-to-peer data network, enabling features like Storm file storage and Prometheus.
		-
	 - [AluVM](https://www.aluvm.org/) is a RISC based virtual machine (programmable strictly in assembly) which can execute Turing complete complex logic, but only outputs a boolean result which is compliant with the rest of the client side validation system. In this way a true or false can be returned into Bitcoin based logic, but be arbitrarily complex within the execution by the contract parties.
		-
	 - Contractum is the proposed smart contract language which will compile the RGB20 contracts within AluVM (or other client side VMs) to provide accessible layer 3 smart contracts on Bitcoin. It is a very early proposal at this stage.
		-
	 - Internet2: “Tor/noise-protocol Internet apps based on Lightning secure messaging
		-
	 - Storm is a lightly specified escrow-based bitcoin data storage layer compliant with Lightning through Bifrost.
		-
	 - Prometheus is a lightly specified multiparty high-load computing framework.
	- Really, any compute problem can be considered applicable to client sidevalidation. In simplest terms a conventional computational problem issolved, and the cryptographically verifiable proof of this action, ismade available to the stakeholders, on the Bitcoin ledger.
	- Less prosaically, at this stage of the project the more imminentproposed affordances of LNP/BP are described in ‘schema’ [on the projectgithub](https://github.com/LNP-BP/LNPBPs). The most interesting to thetechnically minded layperson are:
	-
	 - [RGB20](https://github.com/LNP-BP/LNPBPs/blob/master/lnpbp-0020.md) fungible assets. This could be stablecoins like dollar or pounds representation. Bitfinex exchange [have code](https://github.com/RGB-Tools/rgb-lightning-sample) which already works with RGB to transmit Tether stablecoins on testnet. This is a huge application area for Bitcoin, and similar to Omni, which will also be covered next.
	-
	 - [RGB21](https://github.com/LNP-BP/LNPBPs/blob/master/lnpbp-0021.md) for nonfungible tokens and ownership rights. In principle BiFrost allows these to be transferred over a the Lightning network, significantly lowering the barrier to entry for this whole technology. DIBA [have this technology working](https://diba.io/) on testnet.
	-
	 - [RGB22](https://github.com/LNP-BP/LNPBPs/issues/29) may provide a route to identity proofs. This is covered in detail later.
	- Federico Tenga is CEO of ‘Chainside’ and an educator and consultant inthe space. He has written an up-to-date[“primer”](https://medium.com/@FedericoTenga/understanding-rgb-protocol-7dc7819d3059),which is still extremely complex for the uninitiated, but does capturehow the RGB token transfer system works. That medium article alsotouches on Taro, which is next.
- ## DIBA and Bitcoin’s Unique Digital Assets
	- itDIBA is a pioneering digital asset marketplace, powered by the [RGBSmart Contract Protocol](https://www.rgb.tech/). It permits the creationand direct transaction of Unique Digital Assets (UDAs), akin toNon-Fungible Tokens (NFTs), on Bitcoin without the necessity of othertokens. UDAs are special digital assets linked to a Bitcoin UTXO(unspent transaction output). These assets embody distinctive attributeslike ownership, transferability, and divisibility, and remain under thefull control and ownership of their creators.
	- Through DIBA, users can explore, purchase, and sell a vast array ofUDAs, taking advantage of the robustness and permanence of the Bitcoinblockchain. DIBA’s innovation extends to the integration of a Lightninglayer 2 solution, aiming to facilitate faster and more affordabletransactions.
	- Assets minted via DIBA are bound to Bitcoin’s base layer with anon-chain UTXO. They are subsequently stored on the Arweave permawebalongside a cryptographic hash, which, combined with a digitalsignature, can validate their authenticity. The RGB Smart ContractProtocol executes UDA transactions via BitMask, a wallet engineered bythe DIBA Team.
- ## BitMask
	- itBitMask is a browser extension wallet birthed by DIBA, intended fordecentralized applications on Bitcoin. It grants access to BitcoinFinance, UDAs, and more, utilizing the RGB protocol. It deliverscomprehensive financial autonomy with its taproot-enabled Bitcoin andLightning Network wallet, establishing it as a gateway to DeepWeb3 onBitcoin. More details can be found on Bitmask.app.
- ## DIBA’s Launch and Marketplace Timelines
	- DIBA has initiated an Open Marketplace for Beta testing as of April2022, available on Bitcoin testnet. The full launch on Bitcoin mainnetis expected to occur in the second or third quarter of 2022. Submissionsfor the DIBA Curated Marketplace are currently open, allowing interestedindividuals to apply as an Artist or a Curator.
	- These developments represent a substantial expansion of the capabilitieswithin the Bitcoin network and further attest to the potential of theLNP/BP’s work. Notably, DIBA [has this technologyworking](https://diba.io/) on testnet. The extensive application areasfor Bitcoin, such as the transmission of Tether stablecoins on testnetby Bitfinex exchange [viaRGB](https://github.com/RGB-Tools/rgb-lightning-sample), emphasize thepotential impact of these advancements.
- ## Taro / Taproot Assets
	- Taproot Assets is the new name for Lightning Labs ‘Taro’, a new[initiative](https://lightning.engineering/posts/2022-4-5-taro-launch/)to allow assets to transmit on the Lightning network. It is more similarto RGB above than Omnibolt below. [Theysay](https://docs.lightning.engineering/the-lightning-network/taproot-assets):it“Taproot Assets is a new Taproot-powered protocol for issuing assetson the bitcoin blockchain. Taproot Assets (formerly Taro) is a newTaproot-powered protocol for issuing assets on the bitcoin blockchainthat can be transferred over the Lightning Network for instant, highvolume, low fee transactions.”
	- The project has clearly been [underdevelopment](https://github.com/roasbeef/bips/tree/bip-taro) by the leaddeveloper at Lightning Labs for some years and seems both[capable](https://lightninglabs.substack.com/p/bitcoinizing-the-dollar-and-the-world?s=r)and mature, though they are obviously following the model of ‘co-opting’open source ideas (from RGB) to garner venture capital funding. They[creditRGB](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/pull/1298/commits/4daba8c373c777defb48136795382803c137502c)in the github. More will doubtless be added to this section and it seemsa contender for our metaverse purposes, being less broadly ambitiousthan RGB upon which it’s based, but perhaps more focused andimplemented. The key feature of Taro seems to be that only the first andlast hop in a multi-hop lightning transaction need to support Taro,because of external data validation databases called “universes”. Thisis an advance on the RGB proposal. The technical specs are now on the[lightning labs webpages](https://docs.lightning.engineering/the-lightning-network/taro),and [code has beenreleased](https://lightning.engineering/posts/2022-9-28-taro-launch/).The beta programme uses testnet. There are concerns that large amountsof synthetic dollars on the protocol could be used to create ‘incentive’for one Bitcoin hard fork or another, under the control of Tether.
- ## ZeroSync
	- The recent zerosync paper offers a tantalising glimpse of a highlycompressed, performant, and private take on Bitcoin. It potentiallyaddresses Bitcoin’s scalability challenges using advanced cryptographictechniques (SNARKs). It compresses the entire Bitcoin blockchain,enabling instant verification and various innovative applications likefaster full nodes, trustless light clients, improved privacy, and securecross-chain bridges. Additionally, zkCoins is a protocol that enhancesprivacy and throughput of arbitrary tokens, which could lead to moreprivate and scalable digital assets.
- ## Spacechains
	- Spacechains is a[proposal](https://medium.com/@RubenSomsen/21-million-bitcoins-to-rule-all-sidechains-the-perpetual-one-way-peg-96cb2f8ac302)by Ruben Somsen. It is a way to provide the functionality of anyconceivable blockchain, by making it a sidechain to Bitcoin.
	- Like RGB described earlier it’s a single use seal, but which can beclosed by the highest bidder.
	- In a spacechain the Bitcoin tokens are destroyed in order to provablycreate the new spacechains tokens at a 1:1 value. These new tokens onlyhave worth moving forward within the new chain ecosystem they represent,as they cannot be changed back. They nontheless have the same securityguarantees as the bticoin main chain, though with a radically reducedecological footprint (x1000?), and higher performance. Each ‘block’ inthe new chain is a single bitcoin transaction. The high level featuresare:
		-
	 - Outsource mining to BTC with only a single tx per block on the main chain.
		-
	 - One way peg, Bitcoin is burnt to create spacechain tokens.
		-
	 - Allows permissionless chain creation, without a speculative asset.
		-
	 - Fee bidding BMM is space efficient and incentive compatible. Miners just take the highest fees as normal.
		-
	 - Paul Sztorc raised the idea
		-
	 - It’s best with a soft fork but possible without
	- The concept is [explained fully](https://vimeo.com/703246895/d89aba6e56)in a recent presentation at Advancing Bitcoin conference.
	- Developer Fiatjaf, has a basic Spacechains based [asset tradingsystem](https://github.com/nbd-wtf/soma) which can be run already called Soma, though it is limited to Signet, one of the local bitcoin testnets,modified with AnyPrevOut described elsewhere in the book.
- ## Statechains, drivechain, softchains
	- There are many [proposals for layer 2 scalingsolutions](https://gist.github.com/RubenSomsen/96505e99dc061d6af6b757ff74434e70)for the bitcoin network. Ruben Somsen [describes Softchains,Stateschains, andSpacechains](https://gist.github.com/RubenSomsen/c9f0a92493e06b0e29acced61ca9f49a),while [Drivechain isdescribed](https://www.drivechain.info/literature/index.html) by theauthor Paul Sztorc on the project web pages and is split across[BIP-0300](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0300.mediawiki)for drivechain and[BIP-0301](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0301.mediawiki)for a “blind merge mining”, a soft fork which it’s unlikely to get. Theyare all hypothetical with the exception of sidechains.
-